#summary How to choose components?

= Introduction =

Sometimes we get asked which parser, tagger, etc. is the best and which should be used. We currently do not make any evaluations of the integrated tools. Also, building a pipeline just of the "best" components may not actually yield the best results, because of several reasons:

  * components or models may expect different tokenizations or tagsets
  * components or models may be good for one domain (e.g. news) but not for another (e.g. twitter data)

We recommend that you try various combinations and stick with the one that gives the best result for _your_ data.

= Particular Settings =

== Dictionaries and other lexical resources ==
If you use components in your pipeline that access dictionaries or other lexical resources, it might be essential to include a Lemmatizer in your pipeline:
Many dictionaries and well-known lexical resources such as WordNet require at minimum a lemma form as a search word in order to return information about that word. For large-scale lexical resources, e.g. for Wiktionary, additional information about POS is very helpful in order to reduce the ambiguity of a given lemma form.

== Lemmatizing multiwords ==
If you use lemma information in your pipeline, you should bear in mind that multiword expressions, in particular discontinuous multiwords, might not be lemmatized as one word (or expression), but rather each multiword part might be lemmatized separately.
In languages such as German, there are verbs with separable particle such as _anfangen_ (_an_ occurs separate from _fangen_ in particular sentence constructions). Therefore - depending on your use case - you might consider postprocessing the output of the lemmatizer in order to get the true lemmas (which you might need, e.g. in order to look up information in a lexical resource).

== Morphologically Rich Languages ==
  * Parsing: Morphologically rich languages (e.g. Czech, German, and Hungarian)  pose a particular challenge to parser components (Tsarfaty et al. 2013). 
  * Morphological analysis: for languages with case syncretism (displaying forms that are ambiguous regarding their case, e.g. _Frauen_ in German can be nominative or genitive or dative or accusative), it might be better to leave case underspecified at the morphosyntactic level and leave disambiguation to the components at the syntactic level.  Otherwise errors might be introduced that will then be propagated to the next pipeline component (Seeker and Kuhn 2013).


= Further references =

Here are some further references that might be helpful when deciding which tools to use:

   * Giesbrecht, Eugenie and Evert, Stefan (2009). Part-of-speech tagging - a solved task? An evaluation of POS taggers for the Web as corpus. In I. Alegria, I. Leturia, and S. Sharoff, editors, Proceedings of the 5th Web as Corpus Workshop (WAC5), San Sebastian, Spain. [[http://purl.org/stefan.evert/PUB/GiesbrechtEvert2009_Tagging.pdf PDF]]
  * Reut Tsarfaty, Djamé Seddah, Sandra Kübler, and Joakim Nivre. 2013. Parsing morphologically rich languages: Introduction to the special issue. Comput. Linguist. 39, 1 (March 2013), 15-22. [[https://aclweb.org/anthology/J/J13/J13-1003.pdf PDF]]
  * Wolfgang Seeker and Jonas Kuhn. 2013. Morphological and syntactic case in statistical dependency parsing. Comput. Linguist. 39, 1 (March 2013), 23-55. 
[[http://aclweb.org/anthology//J/J13/J13-1004.pdf PDF]]